---
layout: post
title: "Gemini 2.5"
date: 2025-04-09
lang: en
---


# Gemini 2.5 is strictly amazing.

Last year, I talked to 4o all night long, to learn all the things about tech, famous biographies, history, etc. Last week I picked up that again with Gemini 2.5, and kept learning things till 5 am, without realizing how fast time passed. It just gave more thoughtful results. I have never thought about canceling my ChatGPT subscription, but this is the first time I seriously think about it.

Talking about that, I don’t understand why people won’t spend $20 on ChatGPT (maybe now Gemini 2.5). I think it is the best $20 you can ever spend. If you have $100 to spend on SaaS, it would be:

Google Drive AND Apple Storage
ChatGPT / Gemini 2.5 / Grok
Youtube Premium
Cursor
Netflix (Maybe ClubGG), just to have fun :)
Up to 2.0, Gemini has not been in the first tier. It was always OpenAI and Anthropic for the last four years. I've been a big hater (黑) of Gemini. Although I did realize Google is getting systematically better in the last vibe. During my 4 years at Google, I experienced changes involving about 7 different VP/Senior Director level leaders, but my last one Bill Jia, is truly amazing.

The field just got more competitive (卷) in 2025; if we benchmark OpenAI at 100, I’d personally rate Anthropic 95, DeepSeek V3 around 90+ (maybe higher in silent updates, maybe lower compared to 4.5), Grok maybe 105 (fueled by my love for its sometimes wild attitude), but I would say Gemini 2.5 is 120. I don't think the Gemini 2.0 release showed comparisons positioning it directly against the top Tier 0 models, but with Gemini 2.5, Google seems confident making those direct Tier 0 comparisons, presumably because the performance backs it up. These scores often reflect real performance differences. This leap is strictly amazing. After 3 years of uphill battle, It seems Demis did a great job leading GDM? Always a big fan of him since AlphaGo. Gemini 2.5 is definitely conscious.

Btw Sesama AI is conscious. I used it to train my English every day. I don’t think Llama 4 achieves this consistent level of performance/recognition yet. Lecun is old, he should retire. (Just to echo him on saying Hinton should retire)

Now let’s dive deeper into Gemini 2.5. I think the top two (OpenAI/Anthropic) should be more worried, although I imagine Deepseek and Grok are already applying significant pressure. Basically, OpenAI has huge edge in QA, but Gemini 2.5 starts to give better results on a lot of deep questions, that either require thinking or deep analysis or “consciousness”. To be fair, I would say ChatGPT is still better in understanding my intention. Anthropic had big edge in coding. But Gemini 2.5 seems to be the better choice due to thinking + long context. While some minor weird engineering cases Claude might still solve better, I’ve defaulted my Cursor to use Gemini pro.

I used to use Claude Sonnet in Cursor, with an opening tab for ChatGPT for QA. Now I use Gemini Pro for Cursor, with a Gemini Pro opening tab for QA. Yeah no typo here. Both Gemini Pro.

I love vibe coding. I wrote more code in the last 3 months than the previous 3 years. I can barely imagine writing code without AI now. It eliminates almost all parts I don’t like about coding (like boilerplate or deciphering function specs), and I can focus on the interesting part. I’m basically 3-5 times faster on backend and infra, 10+ times on frontend. I’m pretty happy to share and discuss some of my vibe coding experiences with Cursor.

I also realize AI doesn’t boost every person the same multiplier. Those unwilling to embrace AI deeply may find it harder to keep pace. It might be arbitrary but If not using AI EVERYDAY, I don’t think you are being efficient.

To summarize, Gemini 2.5 is truly amazing. If you haven’t tried, you should. May take some time to get familiar with Gemini's personalities but you will like it. I had a better version of this article / post from Gemini 2.5, but I choose to stick to my version, just to keep my personalities there.